Adding get started topics (#471)
osisoft/OCS-Docs: content/overview/get-started/gs-assets.md

---
uid: gpAssets
---
# Get started with assets

An asset is a container that includes metadata and references to streams related to a logical asset. For more information about assets, see the following:

- [Assets](xref:ccAssets)
- [PI Server counterpart](xref:ccAssets#pi-server-counterpart)
- [Assets best practices](xref:ccAssets#assets-best-practices)

## Procedure

> Follow the procedure to create RESOURCE.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow the procedure to create an asset.
```
Thanks for catching this!

1. Click the ![Menu icon](images/menu-icon.png) icon and click **Asset Explorer** (under Visualization).

> 1. Click the **Change Namespace** drop-down list.  In the `Select a Namespace` window, click **MyOCS**. <!-- Is there a reason not to specify MyOCS? We could say, "or whatever namespace you are using"-->

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Change Namespace** drop-down list.  In the `Select a Namespace` window, click **MyOCS** or another namespace in which you created your stream. 
```

1. Click **Configure UOMs** to open a window where you can assign UOMs to the stream properties.  

   **Note:** If the properties already have UOMs assigned, the UOM you set here will override this. No data conversion occurs between the two UOMs.
   
1. Click the **Status** tab, and click **Add Status Configuration**.

   The `Select Property` window lists the properties whose values can be displayed as a status. Only properties with an enumerated state or that have a string value can be displayed.
   
1. Select the **Output Pump Status | Status** property and click **Continue**. 

   If there are no values in the stream, there will be no eligible values to choose from. If there are eligible values that can be mapped to different statuses, select the value that corresponds to the Good, Warning, and Bad statuses. 

1. When you are done, click **Save**. 

   This adds the asset to the left pane.

1. In the assets pane, use the icons in the upper right of the toolbar ![Card view/List view](images/card-list-view.png)to switch between the following:

   - Card View which displays the assets as a series of tiles 
   - Table View which displays the assets in a table format 

> ## Next step

Author: ```suggestion
## Next step
Continue with [Get started with asset types](xref:gpAssetTypes).
```

Reviewer: I'd approve this one also but it looks like it's run into a merge conflict.

---
uid: gsAssets
---
# Get started with assets

An asset is a container that includes metadata and references to streams related to a logical asset. For more information about assets, see the following:

- [Assets](xref:ccAssets)
- [PI Server counterpart](xref:ccAssets#pi-server-counterpart)
- [Assets best practices](xref:ccAssets#assets-best-practices)

## Procedure

Follow the procedure to create an asset.

1. Click the ![Menu icon](images/menu-icon.png) icon and click **Asset Explorer** (under Visualization).

> 1. Click the **Change Namespace** drop-down list.  In the `Select a Namespace` window, click **MyOCS** or another namespace in which you created your stream. 

Reviewer 2: Microsoft says “dropdown” has no hyphen

Author: Done

> 1. Click the **Change Namespace** drop-down list.  In the `Select a Namespace` window, click **MyOCS** or another namespace in which you created your stream. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Change Namespace** dropdown list.  In the `Select a Namespace` window, click **MyOCS** or another namespace in which you created your stream. 
```

> 1. From the  **Assets /Asset Types Selector** drop-down list, ensure that **Assets** is selected.

Author: ```suggestion
1. From the  **Asset/Asset Types Selector** drop-down list, ensure that **Assets** is selected.
```

> 1. From the  **Assets /Asset Types Selector** drop-down list, ensure that **Assets** is selected.

Reviewer 2: Assets /Asset Types Selector. Space is intentional? Different spacing in the previous topic.

Author: Done

1. In the toolbar, click **Add Asset**. 

1. In the `Select Type for New Asset` window, select **< None >** and click **Continue**.

1. A panel appears on the right. Enter the values in the fields:
   - `Asset`&ndash; **MyOCS.Tank**
   - `Description` &ndash; Optionally, add a description for this asset.
   
1. Click the **Metadata** tab, and click **Add Metadata**.

1. Enter the following:

   - `Metadata` &ndash; **Capacity**
   - `Value` &ndash; **200**
   - `Type` &ndash; **Double**
   - `UOM` &dash; **US gallon (Volume)**

1. Click the **Properties** tab, and click **Add Stream References**.

1. In the `Select Streams` window, enter **MyOCS.*** in the search box.

1. Select **MyOCS.NorthAmerica.SLTC.PumpA** from the list and click **Add**.

1. In the text box below the **Stream References** label, enter **Output Pump State**.  This is the user-friendly name for the stream reference.

> 1. Click **Configure UOMs** to open a window where you can assign UOMs to the stream properties.  

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click **Configure UOMs** to open a window where you can assign a unit of measure (UoM) to the stream properties.  
```

> 1. Click **Configure UOMs** to open a window where you can assign UOMs to the stream properties.  

Reviewer 2: Define the first instance of UOM?

   **Note:** If the properties already have UOMs assigned, the UOM you set here will override this. No data conversion occurs between the two UOMs.
   
1. Click the **Status** tab, and click **Add Status Configuration**.

   The `Select Property` window lists the properties whose values can be displayed as a status. Only properties with an enumerated state or that have a string value can be displayed.
   

> 1. Select the **Output Pump Status | Status** property and click **Continue**. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Output Pump Status | Status** property, and then click **Continue**. 
```

Author: Done

> 1. Select the **Output Pump Status | Status** property and click **Continue**. 

Reviewer 2: Be consistent with this type of phrasing.  Use a comma before "and" or don't use a comma, consistently.

   If there are no values in the stream, there will be no eligible values to choose from. If there are eligible values that can be mapped to different statuses, select the value that corresponds to the Good, Warning, and Bad statuses. 

1. When you are done, click **Save**. 

   This adds the asset to the left pane.

1. In the assets pane, use the icons in the upper right of the toolbar ![Card view/List view](images/card-list-view.png) to switch between the following:

>    - Card View which displays the assets as a series of tiles 

Reviewer 2: Should you get rid of the “which” in this little list? For example, “Card View displays the assets as a series of tiles”

>    - Card View which displays the assets as a series of tiles 

Author: ```suggestion
   - Card View &ndash; displays the assets as a series of tiles 
```

>    - Card View &ndash; displays the assets as a series of tiles 

Author: ```suggestion
   - ![Card view](images/card-view.png) &ndash; Card view displays the assets as a series of tiles 
```

>    - Table View which displays the assets in a table format 

Author: ```suggestion
   - Table View &ndash; displays the assets in a table format 
```

>    - Table View &ndash; displays the assets in a table format 

Author: ```suggestion
   - ![Table view](images/table-view.png) &ndash; Table view displays the assets in a table format 
```
